welcome to the weekly in web browsers
and my PFS and GUI team sinkhole this
week we have a demo filled action-packed
agenda so let me just get that up on
screen
[Music]
my act of someone who cares about gooeys
I have increased the font size in this
document so we can actually read it when
it's face lit up on calls tada
we have an agenda we have a note taker
that's Jim and the recording has started
so I will start with two demos and then
we'll go into miscellaneous other demos
right so who's first up haha as always
it is vital we like their here's with
your highlights from last week title
that you may be muted oh he's screen
sharing you are muted a little you are
remaining muted together how about now
much much better much better alright yep
so it was an eventful week I released a
new stable version of IPOs combined and
we've with UI being enabled for embedded
J's idea first note which may go away
soon I'll get to that later
yep we had an interesting discussion
about resolving DNS names in a ZFS
companion and I mention it it's like a
long research dump made by me but I
mention it mostly on this call because
out of that I came up with an idea how
to solve the original problem for for
local gateway and basically if we make
go ipfs or J's ipfs an actual HTTP proxy
HTTP proxy is able to basically generate
responses for arbitrary hosts and that
would solve the origin problem for us
because we would have
very nice URL ending with dot ipfs
localhost which is both self-explanatory
and also much better relaxed for users
so far I got positive feedback and some
good hints I already like change the
namespace to - no longer collide with
mdns so if anyone is interested how
local gateway could look in web browser
zone this is a good issue to follow how
it would work automatically
is that ipfs companion is able to set
HTTP proxy for arbitrary URLs so the
users would just install activex as
companion and the proxy would be
automatically set so those domains local
host domains would be proxy by go ipfs
that's very cool
that's yeah that's like solves multiple
UX and security problems and we'll
probably go this route mostly because we
like don't have anything better this and
this does not require any new API so any
new like changes in browsers it's like
my name is a great idea though it's
based 33 cid yep and like less pleasant
note is that temporarily ipfs companion
is no longer available on the firefox
store because we had like
reproducibility issues there's like no
it's like a long issue of issues like a
long list of issues and I managed to
resolve our reproducibility issues in
the companion itself but the reviewer
noticed that it's not possible to build
web UI like to get exactly the same
unified code and I open issue in
activist what do I will have a
discussion on this later but basically
it's like an ongoing thing that will be
a priority for me this week so I'm
blocked on that and first I want to
resolve that problem and then I will be
probably finishing the work I had to put
on house which is like parasite redirect
opt-out
I got like it's narrowly done but I did
not manage to create a PR so let's stop
sharing screen and see some people super
nice any quick questions for little
little good in which case do go would
you care to go next
hey guys hello so last week after our
lengthy discussions about words and I
just a small examples of what we can
probably remember this is just after
this basically i ira factored the whole
context menu this thing here before this
highlighted this is a file and each one
of these have inside another component
that was this one context random so you
guys can imagine the huge Dom node that
the huge dome it would appear if you
have a list with 100 files we would have
a hundred in new files with a hundred
context menu so I had to decouple all of
that project and now we only have one
hundreds menu it works with every file
that was a bit of work I know it's just
that idea but performance wise it will
be a big difference that quests some
things like I already fixed it so that
was like now most of my work is been
refactoring all the finalists to use
react virtualized like I talked about
last week it's not finished yet he has a
lot of bugs yeah they're still rendering
issues I still need to fix some some
things but I hope to finish this this
week I can show you guys an example I
want to do the same here as you can see
this is using you see this little are
playing diseases in react virtualized
it's only rendering what's inside this
window but as you can see we have two
Scrolls we have the main scroll all the
way loaded and the little scroll or
react actualize these things I don't
like it but while I was checking the how
to do this in the file I noticed that
there is a component that we can use to
basically this is using react fertilized
but it's overriding the scroll on the
page so we can scroll the page but we're
actually just growing on the reaction
for life
what's happening as you can see there's
a little glitch in the files they come
up and down I'm not sure why that's what
I have to fix but other than that
although he remembers all the glitch
that was happening here not happening
just this little one okay so basically
it's it's almost and I think then I have
to work with the other interactions
that's missing the chef of the planet
check them they're not appearing but
there's just some small big girls I
think this is under way can we see the
storybook so the the reason for swapping
out the files list for immediately
rendered in swapping that for
virtualized so that we can handle huge
directory listings Thiago's made a demo
it's not really that well because it's
not working no it's not working because
I changed there yeah I I just now put
the windows crawler
because we only have the windows it's
kind of working ok I can still show I
can show
we can render I don't know 1005 it's
giving me this error each okay okay so
so that that's cool this is a stepping
stone for the UI there's a longer piece
of work to get a paginate 'add API
endpoint for directory listings so that
if a directory contains you know 10,000
plus entries the UI doesn't lock up when
it tries to render it in the meantime if
the directory contains a thousand plus
entries react virtualized will mean that
we only render the components that are
in view rather than the full thousand
item list and that keeps rendering fast
even in the presence of moderately large
directories it doesn't solve it for very
large territories because at that point
we'll just blow out the browser's memory
when it tries to download a humongous
payload like here's a billion entry list
this gets us gets us a lot you know
of the bell curve of directory sizes
this gets us a lot of that question from
Chris wearing yes just a quick one on
how virtualize works is that there's
does it render the objects interview and
remove them from the Dom based on though
they'll only ever have the maximum
amount of exactly that yeah it's really
cool assuming a minute just renders the
one yeah it's end up pretty quickly when
I was building the IP LD Explorer when I
had nodes with like 5,000 links and the
entire website locked up when I tried to
render it so I had about four
virtualizer and it's been working well
there for a while yeah and by basically
at least was the only thing that was
left to use the expert realized is we
already using the export and the peer
stage so it makes sense to to apply it
here but this is a bit more complicated
because
it has a lot of interactions drag and
drops checkboxes any other things so
yeah hopefully this will be finished and
we can check the new version of the IBI
and that's it for me super cool thank
you very much
I think it's me I think enrique can't be
with us this week so I'll just quickly
he is mostly on holiday but as in
overworking freshen he has done one
important thing which is we got the IP
fest desktop we've been working on
getting signed builds for OS X and
Windows and the OS x one landed a couple
of weeks ago and the windows one landed
last week so he's upgraded the build
pipeline to include the windows
certificates so future releases of
desktop will be signed which means fewer
warnings on install is good UX when okay
what was I doing
no I don't think I need to share my
screen for that then he canceled due to
do not a huge amount from me this week
mostly been doing management tasks but
the exciting one is there's two exciting
ones one is we're about to get count
lead my PFS Gayoso will be able to get
telemetry from our self hosted analytics
for web UI and desktop I'm expecting
that to land this week so that next week
I can wire it into it's already world at
the web UI I just need to get that PR
merged and then after that I'm gonna add
additional and I think for desktops drop
down menu but other than that we're good
to go on the and that's all it respects
the users do not track preference in
their browser and the other one was we
got github actions enabled for all our
books so we can start experimenting with
those if that is our want which connects
to the agenda point which is Jenkins has
gone away as our CI and that was how we
were publishing all our websites so I
won't talk too much about that we can
say
go back to that at the end and next week
we are releasing I think web UI 2.4 with
all the files improvements that we can
working on I think we got to the end of
the list so that's very exciting
kind of that's going to drop and the
desktop is just a couple of tests away
from being ready for release as well so
we might be having two releases this
week the the excitement is tangible
boom and then I've got a background task
to add analytics so bunch of things but
hey that's me teri did you want to do an
update
sure yeah mostly what I've been working
on I'm in San Francisco this week with
the community team doing a little
hacking and bonding and whatnot so
Michael and I spent some time yesterday
looking at the file tutorial like how
the uploading will even work and what
the UI would look like for that so I can
show you that at some point I don't know
if you rather do it now or later on
I think I think I'm different now
you're in it sure fine the oh so many
windows okay
sure something here look a slide deck
okay there we go
so for those who haven't seen what a
normal lesson looks like you end up with
just an exercise box like this and you
update some code and you hit submit and
get some feedback and that's the only
task that you have to do but with the
new lessons there will be some in which
you need to actually upload a file into
the browser so that we can then work
with it or console.log stuff about it or
whatever we're going to do so I'm
working on kind of what this looks like
and I'm very open to feedback I just got
a little bit of feedback from the design
team which I've implemented a tiny bit
of and I can tell you some other things
they suggested so making this kind of
programmatically know whether it's file
s or not and add these little headers
for the multiple steps and then I stole
this my big accomplishment of the week
is I figured out how to copy elements
from google the inspector in chrome
which I didn't know how to do so that
means I don't have to learn where to
find your HTML and all your access to
steal things from you it's very exciting
and then this which Michael made this
thing there's something broken about it
right now so if you would like to click
to upload you have to do it twice you
can also drag things into it pretend
that these that the file name or file
names are next of this so the design is
more like what you just saw and pretend
that this which is not in the div of
this way thing is sitting above it which
is where I mean it to be just to match
this pattern one of the things they
suggested on the other college that we
could come up with some sort of like
redo icon that you'd get familiar with
the meaning of and use that instead of
the words but consistency was one of the
asks on that call yeah so if you decide
these are not the file so you want to be
working with it we'll just go back to
this version and then you would do
whatever a year
and hit submit right now this is built
in a way that that won't work but
pretend that it will evaluate both
whether you have indeed uploaded a file
and whether you put in whatever code we
want you to do and give you the
appropriate messages and let you move on
to the next lesson as the otherwise
would and some of the other feedback
that I got on the design call was that
they'd like to see like you know here's
there's first upload a file next do this
they would rather see it as a small
chunk of text under this header and then
a small chunk of text under this other
and we talked about whether we might
want to have like little checkmark icons
appear as you do each of these or if we
want a disable that submit button until
you have done both of them as opposed to
you doing it and then us telling you
that you didn't do one so some
suggestions along those lines for that
kind of stuff but I'm I'm very open to
other suggestions because you guys are
all very front nd those suggestions
sound wise just knowing how it is
implemented
I also know that there's a ton of work
to do yeah this the splitting of this
text will be a problem yeah yeah except
I think no I don't know we can the
potential switch to view press might
make it work differently than it would
now so that's what I said that was like
he's not gonna solve all oh yeah so yes
that might be challenge any other
thoughts ideas no a current bar will
them if you drop a link to the issue on
the channel people might you might add
their thoughts I can do that oh and then
maybe I can figure out how to change
that SVG of the file icon
so it's this teal color or something so
it looks a little more consistent yeah
we can help with this
like if a CSS has a kurtas ipfs icon set
in so you might find some icons in there
ipfs CSS yes this just CSS that is
already in my project work I believe it
is yeah we can talk later if I don't
know where it is
that's okay drop a drop a link to on the
chat and we can add it to the notes
somewhere there is a icons page that is
kind of rough but it shows you what's
available
yeah she sent me that one I don't know
if she got it from there somewhere else
but she does this there's this thing
which is like linked to from the ipfs
CSS page shows you the two variants the
glyph flavor maybe you can get to that
from my PFS CSS which is not what is
here to this thing and somewhere down
here there's a link to the icons cool
all right whoa let me stop sharing back
to the agenda stay focused
Dorota or so we missed ahead chimp if do
you want to do it Emma showed you the
demo now are we doing the demos after I
am well what I'm doing now is just
running through the document the agenda
document in order so teri was there
you're next Ellen can go after you okay
diva after after us there are thieves
okay furnace Alan Alan do your update
I'm not sure you you ready to go
he's on mute he's ready he's charging up
okay we just share my desk okay so okay
okay what was they doing last week I am
working on this tool good I'm I am ipfs
install manager and I added this command
called LS to it and allows it to or
basically it's like a get get output but
it lists out the the versions you've got
installed of RFS and points out the one
that you're currently using as well and
highlights in green that little star
like gets us and it can also show you
all of the available versions for
different implementations and that you
could install and which the ones you
have got installed at in white and the
ones you don't
in red excetera so that chemical and we
were where we here here that's it
secondly I made a whole bunch of
progress on CID v1 base 22 this week and
sent out a request for there so that's
good it's coming along we'll be with you
soon
and then the DHT pull request adding DHT
to chair sub if s has now been merged
and that is super good news will be
available in the 0:35 release speaking
of which i released a free release of 0
theta 5 with this pull request in it
because why not but there there is
there's dragons if you are using this i
have noticed problems such as unable to
update lock within the state still
threshold so there's a bug lair and it
picks a cpu at 100% if you're unlucky
and but it's there and so I can show you
know right now I'm looking at okie you
see my screen right yeah I'm connects
I'm using companion yes yes it's
actually taking my CPU right now but
it's got mishmash mismatch in number
anyway
look 341 or 482 whichever number you
choose to choose to believe there is
more than the 10 you usually get so
things are things are happening although
there's a bug that needs to be fixed
before it can be released so that's
that's that's getting result in other
news there was this one weird trick that
I thanks to Cuba he pointed out that if
we use the test profile for go ipfs and
in our tests that the test might be
might be a bit faster so I thought why
not heck why not why not give it a go so
I I gave it a go and the test site at
the time it took to run the node tests
locally on my laptop went from 14
minutes to 5 minutes I was like wow
that's incredible and so that's a big
big win
I just applied it everywhere and that
pull requests have been merged and and
that's all good and now the CI has
changed also to the use Travis so we are
we are really rocketing with the CI this
week so I'm super happy and I'm not
blocked on anything next up I I'd like
to address the problem with the CPU
being pegged at hundred percent and just
do some stuff to sort out as soon as I
get a chance and I am also going to
hopefully continue with the CID me run
base 32 I have a quick question about
the Oh doc 35 release of JFS is it
when's it what's the time window that
you're looking at is it like this week
next week two weeks seeing is it only in
the release notes we have only the DHT
it really depends on how long it takes
to resolve the issues with with the
stability of lipids being the DHT
that's in there right now with the
advent of the DHT I think we because we
are making that many more connections
and I think it's going to uncover a
whole bunch of bugs that we haven't seen
before now that are going to need to be
addressed and at the moment I don't I
can't really say for sure how long that
might be
there was more to frame my question it
was more than it would be nice to get
the 2.4 release of web UI in it and it
sounds like we have a smaller distance
to go to get would be way 2.4 ready to
ship then you have 4:35 missing anything
if that gets ready before then I'll put
it in no problem i I don't I imagine
this will take at least a couple of
weeks just so out super so it was more
to say yes please I would like to do
that because there's a bunch of good
improvements in teed off beautiful that
should go and I would like to have them
we will try not to hold
your release schedule mr. JSF you know
that you you I'm sure you went there was
a lot of testing we need to do on the
DHT like it's not only you know the fact
that it's taking the cpi-u but we need
to make sure that we know it works and
it works well and isn't gonna pollute
the pollute what's out there already and
in any way and yeah so there's a way to
go but that the pull request for that
for adding the DHT has been open forever
and the tests all passed so it needed to
get merged but now we need some real
work will real-world tests and we need
to get the interrupts tests all up and
running and ready as well so yeah it's
it's a little while away I'd say but you
can still have a go if you want
Thanks all right let's move on you go
mister yes would you like to give us
your highlights from last week
yes so I've been runnin with Olay and
Alex and Alan and everyone from the
infrastructure infrastructure team so
basically I mean all ha ha ha I've been
working on the Travis migration and all
I did was around topic the important
stuff is all in this issue that I try to
find how can I the one anyone these
coals always reveal that every single
one of us has complete browser tab
bankruptcy it's great so if anyone wants
to help
I'll treat these patients you can see
the issue puts your the rapport you're
gonna do are you gonna ass in this list
you have the instructions here to add
Travis to your repo the one thing you
should look at is this first part if in
any way you are using or comparing I'll
without the is your Windows job will
probably break things will not match so
you should be careful about this part if
you are doing this type of things like
repairing files or see IDs we should add
lines like these to your get attributes
file in your specific repo everything
else is just straightforward just
copy/paste what everything in here you
create a Travis file you have your nice
patch to the readme and you are good to
go right now we are in the process of
moving everyone because Jenkins died and
didn't like tell that attire to everyone
else so everyone is kind of finding out
that no more Jenkins machines are
running so be careful with that and help
us out so for the next couple of days
I'll be looking at the benchmark repo
from the near from guys as we I'm here
with the info team I'm gonna check
everything in there and make sure we can
deal with it and understand everything
that is in there and probably try to
find a way to manage and probably
replicate
that's infrastructure to other working
groups so that will it be it's also
integrating the benchmarks on the two on
Travis the nightly builds or the night
and also some runs on the PRS which
specific tests not all of them because
all and take one time to finish but sell
them two most important ones will
probably be running them on each full
requests and yeah as we finish the
migration to the Travis I will try to
finish the window size be ours so they
can be included on the next release of
IPA face but yeah we are having some
troubles with the PHP and windows so
let's see if we can make it it's
basically it for me as anyone any
questions oh ok
you think that is the round of updates
let me share my screen and we can jump
back to the I'm gonna jump in over you
ha ha ok so key one midpoint scoring we
have the in web browsers working group
and the IP festivities have some
objectives and some key results and
we're halfway through the first quarter
so now it's time to go through and
review are we are we building what we
said we thought was important to build a
month and a half ago or our memories so
bad that we have drifted off on to other
things
hopefully not but now is the point to to
check in with them please remember to go
and look at the spreadsheet and if your
name is next to a thing make sure it has
a score next to it and make sure that
you think you're doing the right thing
that's enough of that
this has been covered already next thing
on the agenda CIA is dead long live CI
the key point here is that we were using
Jenkins and it's gone away it was
difficult to maintain it and it wasn't
super reliable so it's now a kind of
choose your own adventure in CI world
and the current recommendation is to use
Travis good news for the GUI team is we
have the left but we've been using
Travis all along burr we have all the
website deploys depend on Jenkins who
had the token to update the DNS when
master changed on github we would autumn
we would do a build do a production
builder the website at the site route to
ipfs get the CID out and then update the
DNS link with the new CID to to cause
humans to be able to see the new website
that doesn't work anymore so we need to
fix that the current there's a
conversation with Emperor around secrets
secrets management and the best way to
do that but fYI if you push some changes
to any of our websites right now chances
are even if the PR gets merged you won't
see the changes go live so this is your
this is your warning consider yourself
warned
all right next thing on the agenda
Britta reverb andrew has a demo this is
a work in progress so I asked him to
demo it just moments ago I'm gonna stop
sharing and hand the mic over to Andrew
Nesbit
hello hey zoom screen sharing this works
this works works pretty good I can see
your your massive screen yes
sorry 2017 oh yeah so tiniest demo ever
I've been investigating I'm looking at
package management and how to IPS can
make that we already have this wonderful
project NPM on ipfs which exists on the
Internet
the regular internet under registry
jester ipfs and I made the most nerdy
little UI so you can actually go and
look up a package so we can look up my
PFS the node module takes a little while
because it procs you through another
service that adds the COS headers right
now because the COS headers are not
available on the registry and i'm my
home internet is currently being
tethered through my phone because it's
awful so everything takes a little bit
of time so we pulled out Allan's latest
version this has come from this registry
rather than directly from the NPM
standard registry and currently the new
pre-release is not mirrored on to the
ipfs NPM registry
I guess because no one has pulled it yet
and so it's not found its way on their
rows if we put in something different
then it should eventually come up with a
CID and you can click on this and go
look on Explorer but it never
successfully resolves to anything I
suspect because the registry is using
JSI PFS and that is not connected to the
DHT because it's the old version of that
at least that's what I'm understanding
from speaking to Alex and but
potentially there's a way of essentially
kind of having a browse this is hosted
on github pages right now but it would
be easy enough to make that available
that single hate about page on ipfs as a
way of exploring information about
packages potentially even once as DHT
support being able to see how many other
people have this package available as
well which is an interesting metric that
you you would never usually see from NPM
but that's all and it's it's got some
real basic styling I think it just picks
up your browser's default font it's
perfect
I think that so yeah it's the the blocks
that are on ipfs NPM so the NPM mirror
that we have are being announced to the
DHT so there's no way to discover them
one thought is if we added if we
connected the NPM on ipfs mirror servers
to the Gateway infrastructure such that
they were then part of the Gateway nodes
swarm then you could just open the
directory directly on IPS bio slash ipfs
slash the ID and it would when you look
for blocks you used simultaneously ask
your connected swarm and search the DHT
so if if they were in a swamp together
that it could work you could link
through to the directory of the thing
that you want to see cool Jim pick has a
hand I just this is just a crazy idea
but I've been playing around with es6
modules using the unpackaged CDN which
unpacks each just like NPM is tarballs
there
like zip that but if you blow them apart
that seems like that'd be perfect for
ipfs cuz this is this is an idea that is
floating around yeah yeah if you could
like require MPM module but you go
through a compile step that just
resolves it - yeah exactly you are on
the money so I don't know it seems like
that wouldn't actually be hard to do we
just have to get the data there they
write once Alex and Andrew have done all
the work to make the thing they exist
and linking to it is pretty easy that's
the special magical link right you get
all this values serviceworker like like
okay I'm like off on playing with
Loonette and stuff but I think you get
up the serviceworker say hey it's a J's
file Oh NPM link oh I'll just rewrite
that to the resolved thing on these
unpacked CD packages which are already
there and then if you can if you carry
on down this line of reasoning Jim you
will end up on the package man they're
just working groups Jim this segues
pretty nicely to your Voyles future tech
demos okay thank you very much yeah
that's awesome let's see I can never
find the share button okay here it is
okay so I'll hide this one so demo so I
was playing around so we had Kosala eric
lee on the call in january and he demoed
Loonette and I watched it and I've been
watching what he's been doing I've been
reading his stuff and I still had no
idea what it was so it was it but
there's this event in Portland next week
and I live in Vancouver so there's only
eight hour drive and I tend to get down
there maybe twice a year so I figured I
want to go see there's a dot project I
was involved in that project last year
so I want to go down there
seeing out with people so Iraklis in
Portland
also Kyle Drake's there so I'm gonna
kill three birds with one stone so go
down next week so I really wanted to
figure out what the lunette thing was
and it's got this the crazy thing here
and so I spent a Saturday and I like
traced for you and figured out what all
the JavaScript was doing and it's like
really crazy but so if you if you don't
know what it is and I didn't know what
it was it's basically a way of taking a
website that's been a static website
that's been published on ipfs but you
can already meet you buy PFS gateway
which is just giving you the raw files
but the gateway has to do a lot of work
like the gateway the public gateway that
our company maintains has to you know we
have to run all these ipfs nodes and
it's we're paying the bandwidth cost all
these packets flying to then customers
you know what with this thing let's
let's the the browser do is the if
you're on a laptop you can run the ipfs
daemon on your laptop and it that'll do
all the work connecting to the network
and the web brought the web browser will
just talk to your local IP FS daemon
running on your machine
we do that with IP FS companion but ipfs
companion you have to install an
extension which is difficult to convince
people to do especially if they've never
come to if they don't even know what IP
FS is in the first place like so for
those people it's like either publish on
the public gateway where protocol Labs
has to pay for all the bandwidth and all
the infrastructure or convince them to
install the companion directly it's been
sort of thinking about this problem he
worked on extension extension extensions
for Firefox 4d web but again that's like
installing another extension he's trying
to think like how can you just publish a
website and people can go to it and it's
just going to work and so basically
would work by doing a fallback where it
would probably probably integrate use
GSI PFS GCSE IP of us in the browser we
go and ode on the on the network but we
really want people to run their own
demons so
so it's sort of it's just it's just
another way you put putting this all
together which it basically is going to
people you'll be able to polish a
website everybody in the world be able
access it on their phone whatever but
the power user so gonna be able to
render ipfs daemon and keep everything
cached locally in the Builder work
offline so it's sort of an exploration
at this stage so I don't think I explain
this well anyway so he he's put this
thing and he's got it installed on his
server
he's got a dummy here pier diem I'm not
going to run it again cuz he's already
done it but what I just wanted it
install it myself
on my machine have already got nginx set
up and I already was playing around with
getting wildcard DNS certificates from
let's encrypt and so I went once I did
one step that correctly undone was I set
up a wild-card DNS and then I did the
the base 32
see IDs and then the nice thing about
those is you can stick them in a
subdomain so so how lunette works is
when you go to lunette there's there's
two file there's only two files and they
have to be served up from on this domain
and they don't contain the content at
all so they can be completely generated
so I just decided to create a little no
GS program
oh wait a second oh that isn't a no
desperate it's too small so there's no
requires or anything this is just clean
note yes and it's in could use the font
size a little or otherwise it's
important yeah so this is everything I
need to do apart from the nginx setup
and then let's encrypt to basically have
you know my own equivalent of ipfs
gateway except I don't have to run IVFs
myself I might set my end like it's
because lunette is rescuing the users to
run I invest themselves or maybe don't
be the GSI PFS for that but I think that
probably the key thing is like the
Gateway being like the HTTP to ipfs
network gateway we often truncate that
idea to my PFS gateway and I think some
people that doesn't yeah so anyway so
there's this little simple piece of
JavaScript code which run on no GS that
essentially lets anybody set up their
own ipfs public Keatley essentially but
they don't have to worry about like
serving all the file content themselves
because that's off shipped off to
individuals that are accessing the
content okay all right I think we have
to figure out how to describe this
better so I did a terrible job so the
the dream is pretty clear and you want
people to have a more of an IDF s
participation without installing a
plug-in so anyways I needed a name for
this thing
and because we have batti batti Plex so
nice to see or anything yet but this is
just I just do this together and
weekends
so okay on to the demo so the first
thing is so he already has he can
publish to ipfs so this is so
for hit publish he would just have one
of these links here and he'd actually
store a file in ipfs through the gateway
what I've done is I've added another but
it would just do the sort of encrypted
blob and I knew we'd have to access it
through this URL I just wanted to open
the store the raw text okay so that's
just an HTML file with the pre tag and
whatever I type so though that was
instant publishing which is nice but you
know the thing with IIP FS or dad or
anything like I built instant publishing
for dad before but you need pinning like
he can't just like publish like like
people will need the files to stick
around so this magic going on here so
there's I built an iframe behind this so
there's iframe you can't see it and says
when I said pinning stash pending so
I'll show you the iframe here and
there's actually iframe here but you
can't see it but what I did was I put
peer base into the iframe so peer basis
the project I've been working on since
September in Pedro script and that
allows you to synchronize things
peer-to-peer from web browsers so this
is actually made different this is the
origin that's the iframe so but the
problem with before she could like run
them both like if you ran to peer bases
in different tabs that would just be
really really bad you couldn't deal with
that firstly I went to Tokyo in November
and I met Andre septic and you might
know him from post CSS and he's built
this thing called log ox which is
inspired by some work that Viktor
Khristenko is doing who's also like
something it's not under team
everything's connected this crazy so but
this has this nice way of passing
matches messages back and forth between
servers but also he's figured out being
the front man front end wizard ideas how
to do likes for a leader election in
iframes or in not in iframes in browser
tabs so so okay so when I published it
this here it sent a message of the
iframe with the cid
in this thing
message and it added it to a asset
that's stored in peer base and so I can
see our pending pending requests here
now the nice thing is I can run multiple
of these so there's already wet in the
iframe here which you can't see but this
is a this is in the browser tab same
origin and here's another browser tabs
these are all the same web browser and
you can see this one has a role of
leader this one has a follower so the
one that is an iframe here is also a
follower so I can you can see the
browser election to have a little button
here to hit resign
and you can't see but the leader is
probably the one that's hidden in my
frame here and everything's talking so I
can click can send messages tea
to each other but also like when I
pinned here
it's using logics to send this and then
only in the only end the one that's the
leader that's the one that's running
your base and so in the leader election
happens the the one that becomes the
leader starts up your base and for some
reason it loses it another one I'll come
up and pick it up so
amazing thing it works yeah that's the
amazing thing so I use I can write a bot
that will just connect to the same
collaboration you know say hey pending
pen requests I'm gonna pin it so since
they don't actually have the bot written
yet I'm just going to be the butt and I
just ego pinned
I love that you have it open in the tab
and well okay so I pin a pin the CID and
since I'm the bot I'm just gonna say
here I pinned it you never saw any of
this because this was all hidden
happening in hidden I dream person so
you are the Mechanical Turk Jim Pitts
there's a lot of stuff there but all the
end-user has to see is this and there
they could publish way in this technique
anybody can just go crazy and just
publish stuff so they'll have to have
the pitter you know configured you know
in the iframe with the robot or
something that's listening care that's
actually pinning the content the stuff
that's in the iframe this could be all
based on like private user preferences
so users could bring their own Pinner
bring their own gateways it's this sort
of technique but synchronize it between
multiple devices so this is super cool
I'm wearing we're out of time so okay
any last thoughts okay that's
I'm assuming that you have dropped a
link to this in the agenda yeah so
encourage people to try it so starting
off my iMac right now so but the thing
is the nice thing is there early isn't
much running on my iMac the problem with
lunette is right now it only works if
you have ipfs daemon running locally and
you also have to have course headers set
up on it so but if you have those two
requirements it might work very cool
is there a link to the github repo in
the notes yes super cool all right
well any anyone else got any quick
questions we're at time so we should
keep them quick hello just like a brief
highlight that this election couldn't be
used in multiple context when you have
J's ipfs you know browser let's say you
you you don't want to use local users
note you just want to have jsap FS on
your website but but your users have a
habit of opening multiple tabs of your
website you basically could solve the
problem of having multiple nodes
multiple instances of J's ideas for the
same origin that's exactly what I'm
doing here cuz a pure base has tears
ipfs in it yeah yeah so it's like useful
not only in the context of the this like
access point based serviceworker
experimentation that you luckily is
doing but even like solving the this
separate small problem for people who
wants to run JCAP FS in their own app
that that saves the resources in
multiple tasks so it's my way I would
imagine in the short term we would be
recommending to use J so FS in a
serviceworker
rather than add leadership election to
your browser tab but it is rare that I
work and I can see the the problem is
actually slightly different yeah like
some people could want to use like
WebRTC and we are not able to use that
in serviceworker I think so it's like
great to have this option
another tool and trick in the box yes
mightily you had another thing on the
agenda did you want to talk about what
to do about web people I think we sort
of you sort of really responded what
should be the action like make the next
step for the summer the summary is IP of
s companion bundles web you are directly
in it so that when you run it on your
Firefox if you happen to be offline you
can still see the web UI which is a
mobile goal but because archivist web UI
is a sloppy build and not necessarily
reduce reproducible regardless of
operating system and environment it's
now cause us to be kicked off the
firefox add-on store so I think we
should definitely remove web UI from the
companion yeah that was that was the
butt of that conversation yeah so like
the small small regression would be we
would not be able to use it in embedded
J's ipfs unless we restore access to API
over window ipfs we may like look into
that again we could probably like
Whitely specific cid path and expose an
sandbox version of api like we could
just hardcore specific version anyway
yeah so we'll continue this discussion
okay all right any other business we'll
have to wait till next week or come and
see us in hashtag ipfs - GUI and
hashtags ipfs - in web browsers in - web
- browsers on IRC freenode you can carry
on the conversation otherwise see you
all the same time same place next week
thank you very much